rushing the injured to hospital after an
air strike in Gaza
City Israel's military stepped up air
strikes on Hamas targets a week after
Hamas launched Terror attacks in Israel
that killed more than 1,000
people Amid bombardments and ground
raids Israel's military says it dropped
pamphlet giving civilians in Northern
Gaza a new time window to evacuate to
the South the warning comes ahead of an
expected ground Invasion by Israel but
the United Nations is urging Israel to
revoke the evacuation order warning of a
humanitarian disaster they are calling
for an end to The Siege on Gaza and the
passage of
Aid our call now is uh for uh one
humanitarian poses and two humanitarian
corridors uh safe passages for Aid to
reach uh the children and families in in
the Gaza Strip uh also the protection of
children is is Paramount and it's the
responsibility of all parties to the to
the conflict Israel's Army accuses Hamas
of stopping civilians from evacuating
and stress that its Target in Gaza is
Hamas
terrorists the Palestinian civilians in
Gaza are not our enemies we don't assess
them as such and we don't Target them as
such if they were obviously the
situation in Gaza would be totally
different we are trying to do the right
thing we are trying to evacuate
civilians in order to minimize the risk
for them meanwhile to Israel's North in
Lebanon Israel's Army says it killed
several terrorists trying to cross the
border lebanon's Hezbollah a militant
group backed by Iran has said it is
prepared to join its Ally Hamas in
fighting Israel fears are amounting that
the conflict between Hamas and Israel
could spill over across the
region our correspondent Tanya Kramer
has been reporting from Israel close to
the border with Gaza and I asked her
earlier if there is a sense that a
fullscale ground offensive is
imminent well this is of course a big
question but I don't think they will
tell us you know when they exactly move
in there will still be this moment of
surprise but I mean what they're trying
to do now what they've been saying since
yesterday is to call on the people in
Northern Gaza which includes Gaza City
the heart of Gaza where over 1 million
people are in this area you to move down
south they said that they have these two
main roads that are usually the main
roads when you are in Gaza you travel
from the north to the South that people
should take those and these are some
kind of safe corridors to travel uh to
the center of Gaza or to the South uh
this is at the moment uh what they're
telling people there to move because as
uh one of um the army people there said
they will hit hard and they're calling
on people to move but it's very very
difficult we're hearing also from the
you know humanitarian side I mean it's
not so easy for people just uh to move
South uh in in in in in this moment yeah
huge concerns from the UN and from
International Aid groups there about a
humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza what
can you tell us about the conditions uh
inside Gaza right now
well I mean I managed to talk uh to very
few people it's very difficult with the
communication and you know some of them
are actually moving from place to place
in the past days looking for a safe
space I mean those people have move now
to the center but there are many many
others they can't I mean if you look at
elderly people or so or if you don't
have a car or something you know what
what do you do I mean it's it's just uh
the the situation has a lot of confusion
what to do I mean we're hearing from the
humanitarian organizations how dire the
situation is uh also you have to
understand you know the electricity uh
at least the the electricity that comes
from Israel was cut off um that has also
consequences of course then the main
power plant because no fuel is coming in
has a cut off so there's mainly at least
for the civilian population uh there are
all these problems that have uh the
hospitals of course then have problems
for their generators the water pumps
have problems so I mean all of this
together but I think the main issue
right now for people in in these areas
and also in the South there have been
still air strikes so is to to find some
kind of safe space but there is
basically no safe Zone in Gaza you're
basically trapped in there and I think
this is uh psychologically also it's
it's a very difficult situation from
what I'm hearing there uh from from
people absolutely uh tell us a little
bit more about military operations um on
Friday we know the Israeli Army said it
had conducted raids into Gaza um both
battling militants there and also so
looking out for information about
hostages what can you tell us about what
the current situation is like at the
border well we're here near the Gaza
border and we've been to areas where you
know there's a buildup of Tanks of the
um uh infantry mainly here um I mean at
the moment they're not moving I think
they're waiting now for the next step
for for their orders uh to what comes
next of course you have still uh we had
so rocket barag is coming out in the
past half an hour or so from Gaza of
course there's also the Navy around Gaza
and the mediterranian uh you have the
artillery from here the air strikes on
Gaza so the war is going on um and of
course everybody's waiting now to see
what happens after this uh 4:00 deadline
might it be a bit flexible uh what will
happen next uh we don't know we just
have to to see what the next hours here
will bring and we will be keeping you
posted here on DW thank you so so much
Tanya for your reporting that is our
correspondent Tanya Kramer near the
border with
Gaza now Israel has called up some
360,000 reservists and mass troops and
tanks along the border with Gaza the
Palestinian territory has been under
siege in a near constant ground and air
bombardment Israel says a senior Hamas
military commander who it says led the
attacks a week ago has been killed in
the air strikes Israel is believed to be
planning a major ground offensive as
we've heard although no such decision
has yet been
announced DW senior International
correspondent funny faar is reporting
for us from Jerusalem I spoke to her
earlier and asked her about the
preparations being made for a possible
ground
offensive that's the big question really
because israelian government did not
elaborate on when they're going to start
the ground offensive but also once they
start it how long it's going to last so
everybody can just speculate on it and
we do not want to do that but rather
look at the indications here what may be
the next step and one clear indication
of that that ground offensive appears to
be quite imminent is just the very fact
that there's a massive troop buildup
israelian troop build up very close to
the Gaza border second they've been for
the first time in fact already israelian
soldiers on the ground in Gaza uh trying
to take out they say uh Hamas militants
but also trying to find some sort of an
Evidence where the hostages are
estimated 150 people have been abducted
on a Saturday last week exactly One Week
Ago by Hamas militants where are they
now one has to imagine that that local
raid that apparently took place in remal
is just a few kilometers from the city
center from Gaza City that again is the
main base to say so with the vast
Labyrinth uh on the ground for Hamas
militants and the third indication that
a ground offensive appears quite likely
uh very soon is basically that Israel
keeps repeating ordering uh people
Palestinians to move from the north to
the South we speaking here about the
half of the population in Gaza strips
about 1 million people that are not
supposed to leave go to the South which
of course makes the impression at at the
same time that the south is safe this is
not the case there have been several air
strikes since Saturday hundreds of them
from all sides when it comes to uh Gaza
but certainly the strongest ones were in
the north so taking those points a a
into consideration that ground offensive
is just a matter of time people do
expect that it's going to be some sort
of a surprise when that's going to take
place obviously uh not to give away
information to a people uh to the Hamas
militants in Gaza Strip and you've
mentioned it's not just a matter of when
it begins but also how long it lasts um
in a rare television address we heard
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
emphasizing that this is quote only the
beginning do you think with this he is
addressing Hamas or is this a message to
Israelis that they can expect this to go
on for a long
time I think by that he's readdressing
uh several entities to say so uh first
of all he's addressing people here
domestically Israelis who are by the way
as we're speaking uh hundreds of of them
are taking to the street protesting
asking for the loved ones to be to to
return to come back the uh people who
are being held captive since Saturday in
Gaza STP so people really are demanding
a very forceful and very strong reaction
there uh by uh by the Israeli military
but you will also hear voices here on
the ground of people just simply being
concerned because they do not know what
the next step that ground offensive is
going to mean for people here in re in
in Israel uh also if he listen to this
message that he says uh um this is just
the beginning that is of course also a
clear message to the Hamas militants
that they know uh they're going to pay
the price for what happened on Saturday
their attack on Saturday killing very
ordinary very innocent uh uh uh people
and third it is a message also into the
region basically trying to express do
not get involved Iran do not get
involved Iran backed Hezbollah the
militant group in the north uh rather in
Lebanon uh and there have been a lot of
exchanges of of fire between uh uh
Southern Lebanon and Northern Israel
already so they potentially another
starting at the same time prime minister
netan simply just wants to appear strong
once has to understand before all of
this started on Saturday there have been
massive demonstrations here on the
street of Israel uh demanding change uh
when it comes to the Israeli government
there been a lot of protest uh revolving
around the controversial judicial reform
so now prime minister netan is trying to
uh display unity in Israel and he needs
that Unity he needs people uh to support
him in what's to come and nobody exactly
just knows what the consequences what
the Fallout is going to be of that next
step forward by Israel in their
undertaking as they say to quote as
prime minister Nano says to crush Hamas
and funny just before I let you go you
mentioned it's now been a week since
those attacks by Hamas do you think a
tragedy of this magnitude is going to
portend some kind of major change in
Israeli
Society I think it's really too early to
say uh as I say the even though there is
a Unity building up here and people are
really sticking together how to help
each other how to help the people the
israelian people who have been displaced
from alongside uh uh the from The
Villages which are close to the Gaza
border since Saturday everybody's trying
to uh be together not really get
involved too much into uh israelian
politics and domestic politics whether
that's going to uh bring any changes
really too early to say as we just
simply do not know how this entire
situation is going to continue and how
it is going to evolve but one thing we
can say for sure most people here have
more questions than answers of what's
going to happen funny faar thank you so
much for your reporting we really
appreciate
it to find out more about Israel's
military planning I spoke earlier to the
idf's operations officer um Ariel who
declined to give his full name and I
asked him how Israel can ensure the
safety of civilians uh if it attacks
Gaza
so on Saturday morning last uh last week
we woke up to a terrible morning where
more than 1,500 terrorists Isis
terrorists Hamas terrorists attacked and
muiz citizens babies inside Israeli uh
Israeli Villages along the Gaza Strip
yesari question a disgusting attack I'm
sorry I have to jump in there that
there's no question this was a
disgusting attack on Israeli civilians
but I'm asking about your response now
in the Gaza Strip and I'm wondering what
your plans are to make sure that there
aren't more innocent civilians killed uh
from Gaza as Israel begins its ground
offensive well as it being Hamas is
responsible for everything that happens
inside the Gaza Strip the Israeli uh IDF
will do anything to bring back the
security to those citizens around the G
around the Villages who lost it in at at
once the Israeli Army were prepared to
do whatever is needed there has not not
been anything declared but we have
nothing against the citizens of Gaza we
have something against Hamas who was who
decided to take out this attack this
horrific attack which I myself took part
on defending citizens in the city of K
in the village of Kim and Nim the things
I saw with with my own eyes I've never
seen in my in my entire
life it sounds like a ground offensive
now in response um is correct me if I'm
I'm wrong there in such a densely
populated area you know where you have
elderly people and women and children
who may not have gotten out uh over the
last day I want to know how you will be
able to launch operations um that
distinguish between civilians and
militants well this is a this this has
been our challenge for for many years
Hamas is a terrorist organization who
embeds itself inside uh
population uh we call for the PE for the
people of the city of Gaza to evacuate
we understand that it takes time we have
nothing against the Citizens we only
have those who are protecting Kamas and
those who are aiding them uh and hiding
the hostages that were taken into Gaza
so that is why we give the we give we
did give the opportunity and we're
giving the opportunity we are only
looking out for Hamas terrorists we have
to change the situation we cannot go
back before the situation in this area
has changed we cannot live alongside
such an
unhuman terrorist uh
Organization no one none of our citizens
can live with that and that is our main
goal in this operation like you said
there has been no uh order but we are
ready to do whatever it's needed whether
in the South or in the north uh we are
ready yeah yeah that is my question um
by which metric will you measure a
successful military offensive here what
is the end goal um and when will it have
been met
the situation the security situation
needs to change we've been suffering
from these terrorists for many many
years our civilians suffered and the
horrific attack on Saturday was the high
point the situation needs to change
Hamas cannot keep on ruling that area
and letting out attacks on our people
and sending missiles into uh densely
populated areas like Tel Aviv and Etc
this situation will change that's what I
can say so yeah my question is what will
ch
the IDF has hit Hamas many times since
Israel unilaterally disengaged in 2005
and yet Hamas is still there still
carrying out these gruesome attacks um
why will this time be different what is
the
plan well the the last attack we saw on
Saturday was something we haven't seen
ever before we saw in small quantities
but this was something else what needs
to change is Hamas cannot cannot be in
power in that area cannot have the the
military power to attack and to threaten
our people threaten the people of Israel
so it needs to change if we need to uh
go and attack every single terrorist in
the Gaza Strip that's what we do but our
aim is the terrorists is their army
capability capabilities the Rockets or
anything else they used to to to murder
to destroy families to burn them live in
their homes anything they used anyone
that was part of it and our other goal
is to get those who have been kidnapped
Gaza Afra I'm afraid I still don't see
clearly how this is uh going to be
achieved I'm also curious about whenever
this does end what kind of assurances
Israel can provide to the people that
have been told uh to leave their homes
to evacuate from the north um what
assurances can you give that they will
at some point be able to go home or or
to whatever is left of
them well that question they will have
to ask Hamas our only insurances right
now are for the people of Israel that we
will protect them and do anything we
need to do so they can go back to their
homes we have nothing against the
population that's not our aim our aim
are terrorists and if we can make God's
also a better place for those who are
evacuating now we will Hamas is a
terrorist organization not only towards
Israelis but also towards the
Palestinians well thank you very much
Ariel for joining us um that is Ariel
from the IDF we very much appreciate
your
time thank you very
much